

## Intelligent and sustainable solutions for Neuaubing-Westkreuz/Freiham
The Smarter Together project is looking to achieve its first visible successes this year. From July 2017 onwards, the roadway in Neuaubing-Westkreuz will be equipped with intelligent lamp posts, with others to follow. With the installed sensors, information from the environment, weather and traffic can be recorded. The collected data will serve as the basis for various applications and mobile services, which are designed to facilitate life in the neighborhood and beyond. Residents will also be able to access information and offers in the district through a neighborhood app. 
In addition, the lamp posts could be equipped with adaptive, demand-controlled lighting in order to reduce energy consumption, as well as offer WLAN (M-WLAN) in the area for mobile devices.
The lamp posts are a project in the field of technology that focuses on the intelligent use of information. The state capital Munich is focused on ‘Smart Data’ instead of ‘Big Data’. Therefore, only data that has an immediate benefit for the inhabitants or the city as a whole is collected, evaluated and made available. Data protection and data security always hold top priority.
The continuous expansion of e- and open-government as well as smart-city solutions has been a part of the IT strategy of the state capital of Munich since 2016. Whether in the areas of the economy, society or administration, digitalisation affects all areas of everyday life. In order to ensure a modern, efficient and transparent administration, Munich must use new technical possibilities and anticipate changing requirements. Smarter Together is an important element for the strategic positioning of Munich in this area.
### Mobility - flexibility on the road with the right vehicle for every occasion
At the end of this year, the first three of eight planned multi-modal mobility stations will be launched. At these stations, MVG (Munich Transport Corporation) links the core service of public transport with additional mobility modules, such as e-car sharing, electric bicycle and tricycle stations, and charging stations for electric cars. At two stations, so-called ‘district sharing boxes’ are integrated, which introduce a shopping and exchange service with 24 hour delivery.
### Energy - with redevelopment and renewables to the low-energy district
A further focus of Smarter Together is on the socially responsible energy-saving renovation of residential buildings in Neuaubing-Westkreuz, in order to increase the share of renewable energy in the heat and power supply. The aim is to raise a surface of approximately 42,000 square meters to a sustainable energy standard. Homeowners will receive a comprehensive structural, technical and energetic analysis of their properties. In addition, ‘smart-home’ elements should reduce the energy consumption of households by up to 25 percent.
A second pillar is the use of renewable energies. A growing portion of the energy supply is to be covered by district heating from the geothermal heating plant in München-Freiham and by decentralised photovoltaic modules on residential buildings. From fall 2017 onwards, a battery storage unit will be in operation. Further, excess energy will be fed into a so-called Virtual Power Station of Stadtwerke München - Munich City Utilities (SWM). The Virtual Power Plant will enable the networking of many generating plants and thus will contribute to the stabilisation of regional networks through intelligent load management. With energetic renovation and the expansion of renewable energy supply systems, up to 700 tons of CO2 can be saved annually.
### Co-Creation integrates population intensively
As part of a co-creation, citizens are an integral part of the work and development process. The opportunity to significantly influence the concept and design of the planned measures is offered as an intensive form of participation. Together with experts from the state capital Munich, regular workshops are being held on the development of citizen-based solutions. They are organised by the Munich Center for Technology in Society of the Technical University of Munich together with the Renovation Agency of the City of Munich MGS.
The number 20 is the theme of the state capital Munich: Smarter Together is to reduce CO2 emissions by 20 percent, use more than 20 percent of renewable energies and increase energy efficiency by more than 20 percent. In addition, Neuaubing-Westkreuz is to be CO2-neutral by 2050.


---
layout: post
date: 2016-10-11T00:00:00.000Z
imageurl: images/news/big_img_6587.jpg
---

